I want to build a mobile phone app in Flutter that will act as a journal for coffee brewing. The general structure I’m thinking of is that at the highest level would be a Coffee type, which would have identifying metadata such as a name and roaster (mandatory), and additional optional metadata like country of origin, farm name, varietal, tasting notes, and tags. Then, I am thinking there should be journal entries associated with each Coffee type. Each journal entry would have a date, and optionally indicate the brewing method (e.g., V60, Kalita, etc.), store basic important details like the quantity of coffee and water used (and hence the ratio of coffee to water), the grind setting (and type of grinder), water temperature, the recipe, notes about reaction or taste, and miscellaneous unstructured notes. The recipe would be a list of steps, such as, for a pourover: bloom (with water quantity and time), pour (with water quantity and starting time), wait (with time), other events (like stir). There could be multiple of each type of step in a recipe. For espresso, perhaps these would be: pre-infuse (with water quantity and time), wait, pull (with pressure and time). I am thinking it might be useful to have a feature that, upon changing the coffee volume or water volume, given a fixed ratio, that the pours would automatically update their amounts to preserve their contributions to the total amount of water in a recipe. I think it might be nice to save some of the recipes with names (e.g., Hoffman or Kasuya methods) to be used as templates for new journal entries. As far as the interface goes, I think it makes sense for the main screen to have a list of the Coffees, and tapping on one brings the user to the list of entries for that Coffee, sorted by date, but with the option to “star” entries so that they appear at the top of the list. Maybe this screen could show some basic summary of the full entry, like water and coffee quantity, temperature, grind setting, and brew time, and tapping on the entry would take the user to a more detailed page with the full recipe. I think it would nice to have a search feature, as well as to be able to sort the coffee list by some of the metadata like roaster or country of origin, and to sort entries by brewing method, and maybe on tags like whether it’s for filter or espresso. The user should be able to add/delete coffees, and add/delete journal entries or make a new daily entry starting with a previous one within each coffee. 

For now, I think the data should be all stored locally, maybe in a sqlite database, with the future possibility of synchronizing with a remote server. Use best practices for mobile app development, and knowledge about coffee brewing to edit the features I proposed to include the best considerations for keeping track of how to make good coffee. 